# Studying the Impact of Filling Information Gaps on the Output Quality of Neural Data-to-Text
Code and other material for the INLG2020 paper [Studying the Impact of Filling Information Gaps on the Output Quality of Neural Data-to-Text](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.inlg-1.6/).  Also included, are the data files from the experiment in the [SportSett](https://github.com/nlgcat/sport_sett_basketball) paper.  I encourage anyone who wants to use data in this domain to read the SportSett paper first, as it explains the data modelling problem, as well why the training/validation/partition scheme has been changed (there is cross-partition contamination in Rotowire on the encoder end).

You will find in the [filling_information_gaps_paper](https://github.com/nlgcat/adding_data/tree/main/filling_information_gaps_paper) folder, our data for the Information Gap paper.  D1 is a close representation of the input data in [Clément Rebuffel's](https://github.com/KaijuML/data-to-text-hierarchical) system, except in yearly partition form (see SportSett paper data description below).  We do not use the exact data because there are a couple of slight differences between Rotowire and SportSett.  The most noteable is that we do not have the "Starting Position" for the player in SportSett yet, we had to add some games which were absent from Rotowire, and need to find the data to add.  The database structure of Rotowire does support this, it is just a TBC upload.  D1 contains everything D1 does, plus the additional GAME and NEXT-GAME entities described in the paper.  The important thing when doing thes ablations was not that we use the exact Rotowire input, this varies from system to system anyway, with different author processing their data differently to present to OpenNMT.  Some works will even add extra data without performing abalations, such as adding the day of the week.  Please don't do this, it means people cannot tell if your results are because of the data or your system configuration (unless you re-run the results of prior work with the same data).  Treat the subset of data that is included as a variable!

In the [sport_sett_paper](https://github.com/nlgcat/adding_data/tree/main/sport_sett_paper) you will find the data for the experiment in the original SportSett paper.  Here we started with the original partition scheme of Rotowire (contaminated), then, we fix the contamination issues by moving game records such that each game only appears in one partition (decontaminated).  Finally, because we believe that with the original partition schemes, models can learn things which they should not have sight of (such as which dates map to which days of the week), we introduce the yearly partition scheme, where we train on 2014-16, validation 2017 and test on 2018.  We have received several comments on this.  Firstly, we were asked if we should test different year combinations, as well as how many years are in each parition.  The short answer is ideally yes.  The long answer is the ablation experiments took 2-3 weeks on a pair of 2080ti's.  We have also seen several comments such as "but how can the model learn about a season, or the dates, or the teams, if it does not have access to the data?".  I believe this is funtamentally the wrong way to look at the problem.  If a sports media company wants you to create an NLG system like this, to be deployed in 2022 (I am writing this in 2020), they will give you the previous data and texts, but you can hardly ask them for the 2022 game data!  Systems need to learn on previous data, then correctly simulate human behavious on future data.  Slicing historic data randomly, then considering the withheld data as "future" is a form of contamination.

Please also see our work on [evaluating accuracy](https://github.com/nlgcat/evaluating_accuracy) in these systems, which often generate about 20 factual errors per summary!  We are also proposing a [shared task](https://github.com/ehudreiter/accuracySharedTask) which aims to find better metrics for this domain (and dataset in particilar), using our evaluation protocol as a gold standard with which to correlate cheaper methods/metrics.